While U-Impactify is not a particularly new idea, it incorporates multiple products into one platform which makes the platform unique. The main components that it incorporates are a teaching platform for students to learn and instructors to teach/create content, a crowdfunding platform for people and organisations to donate money. This allows for those who lack monetary resources to learn more specific skills to be relevant in the job market. The last important feature of this platform is that it has a job board where organisations can post vacancies for job/volunteer positions for U-Impactify Learners who have completed specific courses.

The main competitors for U-Impactify are other online learning platforms such as coursera.org, udemy.com, and linkedin.com/learning. These platforms provide courses to anyone who wants to learn a particular skill set. They are either based on a per-course fee or a subscription fee. 

By incorporating the Social Initiative platform into this program we are able to simplify the job/volunteer search for Learners, while also simplifying the process for organisations to find accredited employees for various positions. This is the differentiating strategy of U-Impactify as other educating platforms lack this feature completely or directly related to a particular course. The most similar platform is linkedInLearning, however their job postings are not located on the same page as their courses, yet they do offer accreditation of Learners who complete the specific course by adding it to their LinkedIn profile. 

Finally, many people who are eager to learn new skills, may not have the necessary monetary funds to pay for the courses, and at this point the crowdfunding platform, the Giving Garden, comes in. Organisations and users can donate money to the platform, which will then be redistributed to learners who are unable to pay for their courses. Udemy and coursera do not offer this feature as they see no use for it given the availability of free resources on other websites such as khanacademy.org and youtube.com.

Khan Academy and youtube.com offer many courses, but the problem with YouTube is that there is not any accreditation check of the instructors, thus anyone can make a video on youtube. Khan Academy focuses on teaching the  basics and is more for students from grade 1 to university. They do not have any specialized courses that the paid platforms offer. Therefore they should not be regarded as direct competitors.

In addition if a social initiative/organisation likes a certain instructor’s course or teaching style, they are able to send a contract offer to the instructor to instruct employees at their organisation directly. This gives an additional ability for both the U-Impactify instructors and social initiatives to collaborate more closely. 

To conclude, U-Impactify is a one of a kind platform that incorporates many important features into one. During times when it is hard to find a job, especially for immigrants, U-Impactify can make it simpler to learn relevant skills for the job market and as a result get hired.